README.md, before:

# _611Final_TradingSystem
This project is a simulation of a trading system which has the following features

1) Main Portfolio Manager (Singleton class) 
2) Database of stocks (txt) files to trade, update, or hold
3) People - customers and clients
4) Services - stock market
5) Accounts to trade, deposit, withdraw money
6) Money Manager for mananging money
7) Personal Page

All of this is displayed in a GUI built on Java Swing

## Infrastructure - 1st iteration
[InitialStructure.pdf](https://github.com/ArkashJ/_611Final_TradingSystem/files/11223661/InitialStructure.pdf)


# CS611 Final Project

Arkash Jain
arkjain@bu.edu
U58748927

Trisha Anil
tcanil@bu.edu

Jianxio Yang
yangjx@bu.edu

## Files
|
| > main
    -> Accounts
        |> Account.java
        |> ITrading.java
        |> OptionsAccount.java
        |> TradingAccount.java
        |> TradingAccountFactory.java
    -> Database
        |> Database.java
    -> Enums
        |> UserType.java
    -> ModifiedFrontend
        |> AccManagement.java
        |> Explanations.md
        |> AccountPage.java
        |> CreateAcc.java
        |> OptionsAccount.java
        |> RegisterPage.java
        |> StockMarket.java
        |> StockPage.java
     -> Initiator
        |> Initiator.java
     -> Log
        |> logSystem.java
     -> Persons
        |> Client.java
        |> CustomerFactory.java
        |> Person.java
        |> Manager.java
        |> IPerson.java
     -> PotfolioManager
        |> BankManager.java
        |> Trading.java
     -> Stocks
        |> CustomerStock.java
        |> CustomerStocks.java
        |> Market.java
        |> MarketStock.java
        |> Stock.java
        |> StockFactory.java
     -> txtFiles
        |> accounts.txt
        |> stocks.txt
        |> users.txt
        |> customer_stocks.txt
        |> Description.md
     -> Utils
        |> Profit_Loss.java
        |> Notify.java
    -> Main.java

### main
This folder contains all the java files for the project
## Accounts
1. ITrading.java - Interface for trading. It has methods for depositing and withdrawing money

2. OptionsAccount.java - class makes the options account for the users 
   - including ownername, 
   - customerStocks, 
   - balance, 
   - and accountNumber

3. TradingAccount.java - class makes the trading account. 
   - It implements the ITrading interface and allows users to handle their money including:
   - deposits, 
   - withdrawals, 
   - finding profits, 
   - updating and checking their account balance 
   - and getting account details

4. TradingAccountFactory.java - Factory class for creating trading and options accounts

## Database
1. Database.java - class for reading and writing to the database. 
   - It initializes the connection string and test username and password,
   - makes a singleton class and 
   - creates tables for 
     - users, 
     - accounts, 
     - customerstocks, 
     - market 
     - and the log. 
   - Furthermore, it has functions for 
     - logging in, 
     - registering users, 
     - making a trading account, 
     - getting stocks, 
     - getting customer stocks 
     - and options accounts.
   - We can call this class to insert data into tables as well

## Enums
1. UserType.java - enum for the different types of users
   - ADMIN,
   - USER

## ModifiedFrontend
1. AccManagement.java - class for managing accounts. 
   - Page to view accounts or create an account
2. AccountPage.java - class for logging in and registering users
3. CreateAcc.java - extension for create AccManagement, to create an account and let the user choose their initial balance
4. OptionsAccount.java - class for creating options accounts. 
   - Display the name of the owner,
   - and the profit made
5. RegisterPage.java - class for registering users. 
   - It has a page for the user to enter their name, 
   - username, 
   - password, 
   - type of account they want to create
   - and monthly income
6. StockMarket.java - class for displaying the stock market. allows users to buy and sell stocks by entering the name and quantity
7. StockPage.java - class for displaying the stock page. 
   - It has a page for the user to view their balance, account number and profit

## Initiator
1. initiator.java - singleton class for:
- getting the path of the database and insert
- loading data into the db
- inserting market data

## Log
1. LogSystem.java - class for logging the trades made by the users

## Persons
1. Client.java - class for creating clients. 
   - It has a page for the user to create their account
   - display account
   - transfer money 
   - return all trading and options accounts
2. CustomerFactory.java - Factory class for creating customers
3. IPerson.java - interface for the person class to transfer money and get authentication
4. Person.java - class for creating a person. 
   - It has a page for getting username, password
   - setting password
5. Manager.java - extends the person class and defines the portfolio manager

## PotfolioManager

## Scalability and extensibility

The game is easily scalable and extensible:

1. Adding new Entities: 

## Features

We have implemented the following bonus features:

1. Sounds -
2. Colors - 
3. ASCII art - we have added ASCII art for starting the game, battles etc.

## Design Patterns

We have used the following design patterns:

1. Singleton - 
2. Factory Method -
3. Strategy Pattern - 


## How to compile and run

These are my current versions:

```
openjdk version "1.8.0_362"
OpenJDK Runtime Environment (Temurin)(build 1.8.0_362-b09)
OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM (Temurin)(build 25.362-b09, mixed mode)
```

Head to the root directory of this project (where this README is located) and run:

```
javac -cp . -d bin main/*.java
java -cp bin main.Main
```

Commit message:

readME updates - addition information about the stocks package

README.md, after:

# _611Final_TradingSystem
This project is a simulation of a trading system which has the following features

1) Main Portfolio Manager (Singleton class) 
2) Database of stocks (txt) files to trade, update, or hold
3) People - customers and clients
4) Services - stock market
5) Accounts to trade, deposit, withdraw money
6) Money Manager for mananging money
7) Personal Page

All of this is displayed in a GUI built on Java Swing

## Infrastructure - 1st iteration
[InitialStructure.pdf](https://github.com/ArkashJ/_611Final_TradingSystem/files/11223661/InitialStructure.pdf)


# CS611 Final Project

Arkash Jain
arkjain@bu.edu
U58748927

Trisha Anil
tcanil@bu.edu

Jianxio Yang
yangjx@bu.edu

## Files
|
| > main
    -> Accounts
        |> Account.java
        |> ITrading.java
        |> OptionsAccount.java
        |> TradingAccount.java
        |> TradingAccountFactory.java
    -> Database
        |> Database.java
    -> Enums
        |> UserType.java
    -> ModifiedFrontend
        |> AccManagement.java
        |> Explanations.md
        |> AccountPage.java
        |> CreateAcc.java
        |> OptionsAccount.java
        |> RegisterPage.java
        |> StockMarket.java
        |> StockPage.java
     -> Initiator
        |> Initiator.java
     -> Log
        |> logSystem.java
     -> Persons
        |> Client.java
        |> CustomerFactory.java
        |> Person.java
        |> Manager.java
        |> IPerson.java
     -> PotfolioManager
        |> BankManager.java
        |> Trading.java
     -> Stocks
        |> CustomerStock.java
        |> CustomerStocks.java
        |> Market.java
        |> MarketStock.java
        |> Stock.java
        |> StockFactory.java
     -> txtFiles
        |> accounts.txt
        |> stocks.txt
        |> users.txt
        |> customer_stocks.txt
        |> Description.md
     -> Utils
        |> Profit_Loss.java
        |> Notify.java
    -> Main.java

### main
This folder contains all the java files for the project
## Accounts
1. ITrading.java - Interface for trading. It has methods for depositing and withdrawing money

2. OptionsAccount.java - class makes the options account for the users 
   - including ownername, 
   - customerStocks, 
   - balance, 
   - and accountNumber

3. TradingAccount.java - class makes the trading account. 
   - It implements the ITrading interface and allows users to handle their money including:
   - deposits, 
   - withdrawals, 
   - finding profits, 
   - updating and checking their account balance 
   - and getting account details

4. TradingAccountFactory.java - Factory class for creating trading and options accounts

## Database
1. Database.java - class for reading and writing to the database. 
   - It initializes the connection string and test username and password,
   - makes a singleton class and 
   - creates tables for 
     - users, 
     - accounts, 
     - customerstocks, 
     - market 
     - and the log. 
   - Furthermore, it has functions for 
     - logging in, 
     - registering users, 
     - making a trading account, 
     - getting stocks, 
     - getting customer stocks 
     - and options accounts.
   - We can call this class to insert data into tables as well

## Enums
1. UserType.java - enum for the different types of users
   - ADMIN,
   - USER

## ModifiedFrontend
1. AccManagement.java - class for managing accounts. 
   - Page to view accounts or create an account
2. AccountPage.java - class for logging in and registering users
3. CreateAcc.java - extension for create AccManagement, to create an account and let the user choose their initial balance
4. OptionsAccount.java - class for creating options accounts. 
   - Display the name of the owner,
   - and the profit made
5. RegisterPage.java - class for registering users. 
   - It has a page for the user to enter their name, 
   - username, 
   - password, 
   - type of account they want to create
   - and monthly income
6. StockMarket.java - class for displaying the stock market. allows users to buy and sell stocks by entering the name and quantity
7. StockPage.java - class for displaying the stock page. 
   - It has a page for the user to view their balance, account number and profit

## Initiator
1. initiator.java - singleton class for:
- getting the path of the database and insert
- loading data into the db
- inserting market data

## Log
1. LogSystem.java - class for logging the trades made by the users

## Persons
1. Client.java - class for creating clients. 
   - It has a page for the user to create their account
   - display account
   - transfer money 
   - return all trading and options accounts
2. CustomerFactory.java - Factory class for creating customers
3. IPerson.java - interface for the person class to transfer money and get authentication
4. Person.java - class for creating a person. 
   - It has a page for getting username, password
   - setting password
5. Manager.java - extends the person class and defines the portfolio manager

## PotfolioManager
1. BankManager.java - singleton class for managing the bank. 
   - Map of a map Calculates profits for all users
   - map to find a single users profits
   - update stock prices
   - get profit for a user
2. Trading.java - singleton class to update the sql table whenever a stock is bought or sold

## Stocks
1. CustomerStock.java - class for creating customer stocks. 
   - Stores the stock name, number of stocks, and the price at which the stocks were bought. 
   - Method to calculate the profit made by the customer on the stocks. 
   - Method to set the number of stocks and the price at which the stocks were bought.
2. CustomerStocks.java - initializes an account number and makes a list of stocks for the customer. It can add and remove stocks from the list
3. Market.java - This class represents the market, a singleton class
   - it can get all the stocks in the market
   - set, add or remove them
   - get the closing time, opening time and set them
4. MarketStock.java - singleton class for creating market stocks by calling the market class
5. Stock.java - class for creating stocks. The stock class initializes the basic element for a stock, including:
   - name, 
   - quantity, 
   - time at which the stock was bought
   - high price, low price, divident and price it was bought at
6. StockFactory.java - Factory class for creating stocks

## Scalability and extensibility

The game is easily scalable and extensible:

1. Adding new Entities: 

## Features

We have implemented the following bonus features:

1. Sounds -
2. Colors - 
3. ASCII art - we have added ASCII art for starting the game, battles etc.

## Design Patterns

We have used the following design patterns:

1. Singleton - 
2. Factory Method -
3. Strategy Pattern - 


## How to compile and run

These are my current versions:

```
openjdk version "1.8.0_362"
OpenJDK Runtime Environment (Temurin)(build 1.8.0_362-b09)
OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM (Temurin)(build 25.362-b09, mixed mode)
```

Head to the root directory of this project (where this README is located) and run:

```
javac -cp . -d bin main/*.java
java -cp bin main.Main
```
